% More Info
% John Gabriele

What it expects
===============

Rippledoc has a few rules:

  * All doc files which you'd like rippledoc to process must be
    Markdown-formatted (see [Pandoc's
    Markdown](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#pandocs-markdown))
    and their filenames must end in ".md". Rippledoc only cares about
    filenames ending in ".md".

  * You must have at least an index.md file.

  * Your doc files must begin with a header block supplying a title:

        % Title for this Doc

    You can also add additional lines to that block for author and date (see
    [Title Block](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#title-block)).

  * It requires that you have a \_copyright file in your doc dir; this
    is how Rippledoc knows it's at the top-level of your docs (in case
    you were to accidentally run it in a subdirectory
    therein). Rippledoc will place the html content of \_copyright
    as-is into the footer of every html file it generates. The
    \_copyright file will usually contain something like: `Your Name,
    2014`.

Further, Rippledoc:

  * is happy to process nested subdirectories of .md files

  * gleefully ignores directories containing no .md files (for
    example, you might have just a subdirectory of images)



# What it does

Rippledoc generates cross-linked html files from your
markdown-formatted doc files. It also generates:

  * easily-printable html versions
  * top-level styles.css and styles-printable.css files (which
    you can feel free to customize)
  * toc.conf files in the top-level and any subdirs. Likewise with
    toc.md files.

A given generated html file resides in the same directory as its
source .md file.

To rearrange the order in which docs are listed in a given directory's
ToC, edit that dir's autogenerated toc.conf file and re-run
rippledoc.sh.

The index.md file is special, and it's required. It serves as the
"front page" of your documentation. Also, its title (in its "[title
block](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#title-block)")
should be the name of your project — it will be shown in the header of
every generated page.

<a id="simple-template"/> As a simple template, you might start each
of your docs looking something like this:

~~~~
% Title Goes Here
% Author Name
% 2014-06

Some text.

An H1 Heading
=============

Some text.

An H2 Heading
-------------

etc.
~~~~

The title after the first "% " is what will appear in the ToC (except
for index.md, the title of which will be used as the name of your
documentation project as a whole).

For more help writing Pandoc's Markdown, see the [Quick Markdown
Example](quick-markdown-example.html).

Once you've got some docs written, you might rsync/ftp/scp your docs
dir to the web to publish them.
