% Rationale and Benefits
% John Gabriele

It can be difficult to find good documentation. Some reasons for this
might include:

  * the developer is busy with other things and hasn't yet made time
    to create or improve the docs
  * the developer doesn't like or isn't familiar with the available
    doc formats and/or tools
  * users were not helping improve the docs and the developer lost
    interest in doing it all him/herself
  * the developer isn't very good at writing docs, and ends up
    avoiding writing them
  * some docs were written once, but they got out of date
  * writing a full manual is a large task and takes a lot of
    motivation to get started
  * the developer is hesitant to invest time into and possibly get
    tied down to any one particular language-, project-, or
    technology-specific doc format or toolset
  * the developer simply doesn't like writing docs, and the job
    keeps getting pushed to the bottom of the todo list

But without good docs you won't have many happy users. And without
*them* you tend to lose motivation to work on your software. It
becomes a vicious cycle.

Rippledoc aims to remedy the situation.

Here's how Rippledoc can help create good docs for your project:

 #. It's particularly easy to use. You just create a `docs` directory,
    write some docs as simple text files, then run the script. There's
    *zero* configuration (unless you'd like to change the order your
    docs appear in the autogenerated table of contents). You don't
    have to spend your time reading a manual or learning how to
    configure anything --- just run the script, upload your docs to
    the web, and you're done.

 #. Your docs are formatted in Markdown (with some Pandoc
    enhancements). Pretty much everyone already knows Markdown (it's
    used on Reddit, Stackoverflow, Github, in many README's and blogs,
    etc.). Potential contributors will not have to learn any new
    markup formats or complicated tools to contribute to your docs.

    Another benefit of using Markdown is that it looks great as plain
    text in your editor. Easy to write, easy to read, easy syntax to
    remember. See the [quick markdown
    example](quick-markdown-example.html).

 #. With Rippledoc, you modularize your docs into bite-sized files.
    This helps lower the procrastination barrier; you (and potential
    contributors) can start small. Write a small index.md and maybe an
    examples.md file, run rippledoc.sh, and immediately get some
    results that you can make available. If unsure of where to start,
    see [authoring tips](authoring-tips.html).

    This also greatly lowers the barrier for potential contributors.
    A collaborator can send you a single text file which could simply
    be dropped into your docs directory to automatically [^1] become a
    new article in your docs.

 #. All of your doc pages have their source readily available via a
    link in its footer (try it on this page), giving potential
    collaborators another way to quickly access doc source and/or send
    you changes.

 #. Making the docs available online is easy. Just rsync/ftp/scp your
    whole docs directory to your webserver. Some module repositories,
    like Python's [Cheeseshop](http://cheeseshop.python.org), will
    [host plain html files like this for
    you](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PyPiDocumentationHosting).

 #. Finally, using Rippledoc *now* doesn't tie you to continued use of
    Rippledoc in the future; it's just a simple program that processes
    and stitches together markdown files. If you decide you don't like
    it, just delete the generated files and you're back to your plain
    directory of text files.

[^1]: Well, almost automatically; you'd also need to add the file to
your toc.conf.
